Let’s RMarkdown that Site
================
An Phan
2023-03-23

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- badges: start -->

[![Frontmatter
check](../../actions/workflows/check-yaml.yaml/badge.svg)](../../actions/workflows/check-yaml.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

## Prompt:

GitHub is an incredibly useful tool for project management and
collaboration. It also has several useful features for professional
promotion: you can host your own site on github using [GitHub
pages](https://pages.github.com/), describe yourself using a GitHub
developer profile, and even use
[resume.github.io](http://resume.github.io/) to generate a resume
summary of your activity on GitHub (you must opt-in by [starring the
project page](https://github.com/resume/resume.github.com)).

posit and the associated package infrastructure provide multiple ways to
generate websites using Quarto (or Rmarkdown). You can complete this
assignment using one of the two options detailed in [Prompt
8](https://stat585-at-isu.github.io/blog-2023/Prompts/Blog-8/Prompt.html)

Describe your experience creating your website below. Don’t forget to
link to your website! Push this blog post to your blog-8 repo. Make sure
that all of the checks are passing.

**How did building your own website go?** I chose the Simple RMarkdown
Site option. Here is [my website](https://anphan0828.github.io/).

I was able to create a minimal website using just a few commands (I did
not know building a website was that fast and simple). I am planning to
add some details to it following the instruction at
<https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/rmarkdown-site.html>.

I added two pages about Research and Teaching, as those are the two
things that occupy me 24/7. I had fun adding details into the website,
the more things added the more I want it to look nice. I will probably
go back and decorate it when I have time. Now I realize all the fancy
websites are just code behind the scene, but effort and creativity are
what make them look fancy.

I noticed that the website is not updated immediately after I push
changes to the GitHub repo, it usually takes 1-2 minutes to fully
reflect the changes. I freaked out at first when the website did not
change accordingly to my code. Other than that, I have no trouble
rendering the site and passing the checks.

Somehow the Frontmatter check does not work for my repo anymore, seems
like I have to pay for something:

Frontmatter JSON Schema Validator The job was not started because recent
account payments have failed or your spending limit needs to be
increased. Please check the ‘Billing & plans’ section in your settings.
