renv R package
================
Kundan Kumar
2023-03-02

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- badges: start -->

[![Frontmatter
check](../../actions/workflows/check-yaml.yaml/badge.svg)](../../actions/workflows/check-yaml.yaml)
[![Render
rmarkdown](../../actions/workflows/render-rmarkdown.yaml/badge.svg)](../../actions/workflows/render-rmarkdown.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

In Blog 5 you had the first exposure to Github Actions. We just checked
frontmatter compliance (as we do for this round). You see that we have
added a second action - here, we are converting the Rmarkdown document
to a markdown file by running `render_rmarkdown` on Github. This action
passes successfully for this document. We want to do something similar
for blog \#4.

Now start reading …

Read the vignette [Introduction to
renv](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html) for the `renv`
R package by Kevin Ushey.

Then do:

1.  **Install the R package `renv` on your local machine.**

2.  **In the project for blog 4, initialize the workflow used by the
    `renv` package.**

3.  **Add all dependencies to the environment (implicitly by installing
    all the depepndencies or explicilty by listing dependencies in a
    DESCRIPTION file).**

4.  **Add the `renv` folder to your blog 4 repository, and push the
    changes.**

5.  **Is the github action working? Read any potential error messages in
    the workflow and try to fix things. Make sure to check stackoverflow
    for help, don’t forget our Discussion board!**

Write a blog post addressing the following questions:

1.  **What is the idea of the renv package?**.

**Solution:**.

The `renv` package is designed to create a reproducible and consistent
environment for R projects. It helps in managing the package
dependencies in the project. It helps to isolate and manage the R
packages in the project, which can easily be reproduced even if packages
are updated or changed over time. It is an effective solution to the
common problem of package dependency management in R projects like
conda, pipenv in python. It is a great tool for project management.

2.  **In 50 to 100 words describe your experience working with `renv`.
    What went well? What did not go so well?**

**Solution:** It was a good learning experience; I was not aware `renv`
earlier. The good point of the `renv` package is that it is easier to
manage R package and its dependencies within a project. It will help to
make the project reproducible and consistent across different
environments.

**What went well:**.

- Install using install.packages(“renv”) and then initialize the
  workflow with renv::init() . It will create renv folder automatically.
  I pushed the renv changes to blog4 github.

- We can use renv::snapshot() to save the project’s package environment
  and renv::restore() to restore . It will help in reproducibility.

- The package lockfile generated by renv made it easy to share my
  project with others, as they could simply restore the package
  environment using renv::restore().

**What did not go well:**.

I found that it is easy to create renv environment, I did easily by
installing packages using install.packages(“renv”) and initialize it. I
think that it is a great tool for managing projects. I didn’t find any
issue till now.

Submit this blog post to your blog-6 repo.
