My professional self
================
sudesh_Bhagat
2023-03-23

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- badges: start -->

[![Frontmatter
check](../../actions/workflows/check-yaml.yaml/badge.svg)](../../actions/workflows/check-yaml.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

## Prompt:

GitHub is an incredibly useful tool for project management and
collaboration. It also has several useful features for professional
promotion: you can host your own site on github using [GitHub
pages](https://pages.github.com/), describe yourself using a GitHub
developer profile, and even use
[resume.github.io](http://resume.github.io/) to generate a resume
summary of your activity on GitHub (you must opt-in by [starring the
project page](https://github.com/resume/resume.github.com)).

posit and the associated package infrastructure provide multiple ways to
generate websites using Quarto (or Rmarkdown). You can complete this
assignment using one of the two options detailed in [Prompt
8](https://stat585-at-isu.github.io/blog-2023/Prompts/Blog-8/Prompt.html)

Describe your experience creating your website below. Don’t forget to
link to your website! Push this blog post to your blog-8 repo. Make sure
that all of the checks are passing.

**How did building your own website go?** First of all, I created a
layout of the website and chose my color scheme using Quarto.
Thereafter, I created the homepage and inserted an image there. Instead
of a dedicated “contact me” page, I added icons of my social media pages
and linked them. Formatting the content on this page was easy. I could
play around with the different levels of the title to add structure to
my content. I was also able to add bullets and other punctuation. I
could add pages to my website and also select their layout. I had the
option to add images on the other pages as well, although I chose to not
add any. Overall, I could see the value R-studio brings in developing
professional looking websites. Here is the link to the website
:<https://sudi007.github.io/>
